# CML Statistical Analysis Course


## Abstract

API standards allow for use of statistical methods to analyze CMLs to establish a representative corrosion rate, remaining life, or reinspection dates. However, other than some basic guardrails, no actual method is described and it is left up to the owner operator to decide on methodology and documentation. For a significant portion of a facility, standard CML analysis and point to point methods are simple and adequate. For complex circuits where the nature of corrosion has high impact or uncertainty, statistical analysis is a useful tool that, with the correct application and approach, can provide valuable insight into risk as well as gaps in the data. This training will cover two methods of CML statistical analysis. The first method is using simple statistics and distributions to understand wall thickness at discrete points in time. The basic statistical analysis requires simple filtering, establishing a distribution at each point in time, understanding the goodness of fit of the distribution, and comparing over time to draw conclusions on minimum remaining thickness as well as corrosion rate. The second method, Bayesian Analysis, is more complex and requires a broader understanding of statistics, distributions and their interactions. This training will cover building a hierarchical model, selecting statistical distributions, and how different aspects of inspection such as type of thickness measurement, inspection discipline, in addition to an endless possibility of potential factors can feed into a holistic statistical model that a computer can solve, as well as where some of these analyses may go wrong. This training will give several examples and provide Python code to work the examples. This training contains advanced level content that requires familiarity with statistics and statistical tools. It is targeted at inspectors and engineers who work with a large number of CMLs.